---
#layout: post
title:  "Mello 2025 Preview"
#permalink: /mello
---

# Introduction

In several previous years I have written a preview article with my research (focused on
primary sources and brokers notes) on most/all
of the companies featuring at Mello aimed at attendees wishing to do a little
research ahead of time.
I also looked at which company presentations might catch investors'
imaginations benefit from buying demand and share price rises during or after the event,
which I called the "Mello Effect".
I also sometimes produced a mini-guide that fitted inside the Mello badge to quickly check
presentation times.

Unfortunately in recent years a reliable list of attendees has not been available early
enough to complete this work and/or I have been too busy.
Furthermore, investors confidence has been so low that there was very little evidence or
prospect of any Mello Effect.
But this year we already have a reliable-looking list of 30 attendees so I should at least
be able to make a start. I intend to update this page frequently over the next few days so
please check back regularly until I replace this next with a note to say it is complete.

# ActiveOps
*AIM:AOM, £90m Market Cap*

The company provides software and a methodology for back office operational management targetting large enterprises. Although the company can trace its origins back to 1994 and was formed in 2005, the March 2021 AIM admission seems to have been timed to capitalise on the WFH boom, especially with the WorkIQ product which:
> analyses a user's interaction with their PC and the applications running on it to provide insights into how their time is spent and the performance of those employees and their employer's processes

This is a SaaS business, but ARR growth had stalled in the 6 months to September 2020 and the primary stated reason for admission was to "accelerate its growth plans and will enhance its profile and reputation within its market". However, in an apparent contradiction, no new capital was raised by the company with all of the sales proceeds going to selling shareholders and on fees. Notably though, co-founder and current CEO Richard Jeffery did retain around three quarters of his shares (13.8% of the company) and has not sold any since.

With notoriously long sales cycles in their target market, the move back to the office, and now with AI threatening many of the jobs their software is designed to optimise, I was interested to see how ActiveOps has performed compared to original forecasts and why they are now attending Mello for the first time.

Unfortunately I do not have access to brokers notes before this year, but I can see a sales growth rate of 10% was used in the original intangible asset impairment test, and these figures look great:

|March / £m   | 2018 | 2019 | 2020 | 2021 | 2022 | 2023 | 2024 | 2025 |
|Exit ARR     |12.873|14.777|17.131|18.300|20.100|22.600|25.100|28.4|
|SaaS Revenue |11.205|13.425|16.178|17.794|19.564|22.058|23.785|26.2|
|Saas Margins |      |      |82%   | 87%  | 85%  | 85%  | 87%  |
|T&I Revenue  |4.751 |4.552 |4.224 |2.600 |3.353 |3.401 |2.989 |
|Cash         |      |      |      |16.617|13.753|15.377|17.606|20.6|

Looking at the share price chart, there seems to have been some significant disappointment in March 2022, albeit mostly immediately preceding the 24th March trading update which appeared in line. 
